Verified W-20130221 - ACB Agent Network Project Files feedback (#539)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/af-project-files.adoc

= Agent Network Project File Reference

Configure and publish your agent network using two key files: `agent-network.yaml` and `exchange.json`. 
The `agent-network.yaml` file defines agent behaviors, tools, and inter-agent communication, while `exchange.json` contains metadata for Anypoint Exchange publication. Understanding these files enables you to orchestrate multi-agent systems with external services and manage asset dependencies across your organization.

* <<agent-network-yaml,agent-network.yaml>>
* <<exchange-json,exchange.json>>

[[agent-network-yaml]]

> == `agent-network.yaml` File

Reviewer: Since this is a title, would be Agent Network YAML File be better?

The agent network YAML file defines a structured configuration for multi-agent systems, enabling orchestration of AI agents with external services, tools, and inter-agent communication. This format provides a declarative way to define agent capabilities, dependencies, and service integrations.

For example, think of the YAML as your organizational chart for digital labor. Each internal organization (for example, HR, IT, Sales, or Engineering) has a hierarchical structure through which actors collaborate. Jobs are split into tasks and assigned.

Just like with human labor, digital agents require coordination. We call these coordinators "brokers". These are special types of agents in your agent network capable of receiving a user prompt, identifying the goal, determining the necessary steps to be carried out, and delegating each step to the proper agent, even if the agent is part of a different broker.

> The agent network YAML file uses these sections. 

Reviewer: And then here, agent-network.yaml

> * <<brokers-section,brokers>>

Reviewer: None of these will work as links because there is a mismatch between this list and actual anchors.

** <<card-sections,card>>
** <<spec-section,spec>>
*** <<llm-section,llm>>
*** <<instructions-section,instructions>>
*** <<links-section,links>>
*** <<tools-section,tools>>
*** <<policies-section,policies>>
*** <<error-handling-section,error handling>>
* <<agents-section,agents>>
* <<mcp-servers-section,mcpServers>>
* <<llm-providers-section,llmProviders>>
* <<connections-section,connections>>

> [[brokers-element]]

Reviewer: This should match what's on line 20 since it's an anchor, so brokers-section. Or change line 20 to brokers-element.

> == `brokers` Section

Reviewer: For titles, I would just use regular font and title case so Brokers Section. It's up to you, though.

Reviewer 2: I agree that we don't do font changes in titles, but I think we should retain the lowercase to match the YAML. I'll see what Martha says about capitalization.

Reviewer 2: Martha suggests something like this: 
https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/platform/lightning-component-reference/guide/lightning-file-upload.html?type=Develop

You could say Brokers Section and then have **`brokers`** as the first paragraph:
== Brokers Section
**`brokers`**

Author: I'll go with that format

> The `brokers` section defines the AI assets in your agent network. A broker is an intelligent routing service that coordinates task delegation across specialized agents in your enterprise. It's defined by the agents and MCP servers it can leverage to accomplish tasks. The broker name is used as the `assetId` in `exchange.json`. The `groupId` defaults to the associated business group value used in `exchange.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `brokers` section defines the AI assets in your agent network. A broker is an intelligent routing service that coordinates task delegation across specialized agents in your enterprise. It's defined by the agents and MCP servers it can use to accomplish tasks. The broker name is used as the `assetId` in the `exchange.json` file. The `groupId` defaults to the associated business group value used in `exchange.json`.
```

[cols="1,2,1,3",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values

|`brokers` |The list of brokers defined in your agent network. |Object |Object with property names matching this pattern: `^[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_.-]*$`. The name must start with a letter or an underscore and can contain letters, numbers, underscores, dots, or hyphens. The name cannot be: `default`, `defaults`, `system`, `local`, `null`
|===

The `broker` element has these properties. 

[cols="1,2,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required

> |`card` |Agent card definition. |Object |Refer to the `card` object properties. |Yes

Reviewer: Add a link to the the card object properties section?

|`spec` |Broker specification. |Object |Refer to the `spec` object properties.  |Yes
|===

> [[card-element]]

Reviewer: Mismatched anchor. Just check all these. These probably came from a generated reference (I'm assuming).

=== `card` Section

The `card` section adheres to the Agent-to-Agent (A2A) specification v0.3.0 and describes the broker's contract, skills, and capabilities. This is a standard A2A agent card link:https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/specification/#55-agentcard-object-structure[as defined in the Agent2Agent (A2A) Protocol specification.].

The `card` element has these properties. 
[cols="1,2,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required

> |`protocolVersion` | The version of the A2A protocol this agent supports. | String | A2A protocol version (e.g., "0.3.0") | No

Reviewer: I'm guessing this all came from a generated reference. There are a lot of fixes needed here (like getting rid of all the "e.g."s. For connectors, we do correct the generated references, but then you have to do a diff for the next iteration of the generated rile, rather than overwriting this. Which may or may not be a hassle. I'll leave whether you want to fix all these descriptions up to you.

|`maxNumberOfLoops` |The maximum number of steps that a task can take. Useful for keeping orchestrations from running too long and consuming too many tokens. |Integer |Positive integer |No |25
|`maxConsecutiveErrors` |The maximum number of errors that the orchestrator will attempt to recover from before returning a failed status. |Integer |Positive integer |No |3
|`taskTimeoutSecs` |A timeout (in seconds) for how long each orchestration task should run. |Integer |Positive integer |No |60
|`tools` |The tools available to this broker. |Array |Array of tool objects (See <<tools-element,Tools properties>>) |No |-
|`policies` |Policy bindings to be applied. |Array |Array of PolicyBinding objects (See <<policies-element,PolicyBinding properties>>) |No |-
|===

[[llm-element]]
==== `llm` Section

The value of this section is a reference to one of the LLMs defined in Anypoint Exchange or in the `llmProviders` section of `agent-network.yaml`. Because it's a reference, you can choose to share the same LLM across all the brokers in your agent network. Or, you can have different brokers use different LLMs to better suit their tasks.

> Agent Network brokers support OpenAI models. The model you use must support: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent network brokers support OpenAI models. The model you use must support: 
```

> * The /responses endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `/responses` endpoint
```

* Reasoning
* Native structured output
* Function and Custom tool calling

> GPT-5-mini and GPT-5.1 meet these requirements. We recommend evaluating different models to find the right balance for your needs. For lower latency, consider smaller models like GPT-5-mini.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GPT-5-mini and GPT-5.1 meet these requirements. Evaluate the different models to find the right balance for your needs. For lower latency, consider smaller models like GPT-5-mini.
```

|`configuration.openAI.topP` |Nucleus sampling parameter. Requires GPT-5.1 and `reasoningEffort` set to `NONE`. |Number |Any number |No
|`configuration.openAI.topLogprobs` |Number of most likely tokens to return at each position. Requires GPT-5.1 and `reasoningEffort` set to `NONE`. |Integer |Any integer |No
|`configuration.openAI.maxOutputTokens` |Maximum number of tokens to generate. |Integer |Any integer |No
|===

[[instructions-element]]
==== `instructions` Section

Provides instructions that are specific to the broker. Instructions often focus on business-oriented concerns. For example, here's instructions for an employee onboarding broker.

[source,yaml]
----
instructions:
- |
  You're an Employee Onboarding Broker. Coordinate onboarding of a new employee across the systems needed for day-to-day work.
  ## The process for onboarding an employee is:
  - Onboard in HR: Create the new employee record. Fetch the address using available tools. Don't ask for the address unless you're not sure how to get it.
  - Onboard in CRM: Create the employee's CRM profile.
  - Send a Slack status update using SlackMcpServer.send_status_update (include contextId from input).

>   - Request employee laptop in Zendesk and initiate the employee badge request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Request an employee laptop in Zendesk and initiate the employee badge request.
```

            5. Summarize actions: Provide a clear, human-readable summary of the steps performed, including information about the created Slack channel and the on-call engineer assigned.
----

You don't have to provide instructions like "split the prompt into tasks", or "select the best tool". The broker does that on its own.

The `instructions` element has these properties.

[cols="1,2,1,3,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required

|`instructions` |Set of custom instructions that will inform the behavior of the broker. |Array of strings |Array of instruction strings. Each item in the array is a string containing custom instructions for the broker |Yes
|`instructions[]` |Individual instruction string. |String |Any string value. Typically contains business-oriented instructions, process descriptions, or guidelines for the broker's behavior. |-
|===

[[tools-element]]
==== `tools` Section

Tools provide agents with external capabilities. When a broker needs to access an external service that's not another agent, it reaches out to an MCP server.

> By default, the broker has access to all the tools available on the MCP server. However, the most modern LLMs can only handle around 20 to 25 tools per context before starting to hallucinate. Limit the available tools to the minimum needed. You can apply that filtering through the allowed list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the broker has access to all the tools available on the MCP server. However, most modern LLMs can only handle around 20 to 25 tools per context before starting to hallucinate. Limit the available tools to the minimum needed. You can apply that filtering through the allowed list.
```

Example

[source,yaml]
----
tools:
  - mcp:
      ref: 
        name: talent-pool-mcp         # Exchange asset ID of MCP server. By default, the groupId for this asset is the same as that in exchange.json.
      allowed:                        # Allowlist specific tools
        - TalentPoolMcpServer.match_email_to_address
  - mcp:
      ref:
        name: slack-mcp
      allowed:
        - SlackMcpServer.send_status_update
----

The `tools` element has these properties.

[cols="1,2,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required

|`mcp.ref` |The reference to the MCP server that is available to this broker. |String |See <<mcp-servers-element,mcpServers element>> |Yes
|`mcp.connection.ref` |Connection reference. |String |See <<connections-element,connections element>> |No
|`mcp.allowed` |Filters the list of tools advertised by the MCP server to only those in this list. Mutually exclusive with 'denied'. |Array of strings |Array of tool name strings |No
|===

[[links-element]]
==== `links` Section

> The `links` section is the most important part of the spec, as it defines the agents that are available to a broker. Essentially, you define the agent network in the `links` section. It enables interagent communication and orchestration. The broker relies on the agents linked here to execute the appropriate actions to complete a user's goal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `links` section is the most important part of the spec, as it defines the agents that are available to a broker. It enables interagent communication and orchestration. The broker relies on the agents linked here to execute the appropriate actions to complete a user's goal.
```

        name: zendesk-agent
  - agent:
      ref:
        name: it-agent
----

> Keep this section short. Don't add all available agents. Just like `tools`, excess values here leads to drops in agent network accuracy and determinism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keep this section short. Don't add all available agents. Just like `tools`, excess values here lead to drops in agent network accuracy and determinism.
```

      policyConfig1: policyConfig1Value	
----

> Policies can be applied at the broker or at the connection. Reference the policy definition and apply the configuration that you want to set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apply policies at the broker or at the connection. Reference the policy definition and apply the configuration to set.
```

The `policies` element has these properties.

[cols="1,2,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required

|`ref` |Policy reference. |String |See <<policies-element,policies element>> |Yes
|`configuration` |Policy configuration. |Object |Any object |Yes
|===

[NOTE]
====

> When you add governance policies to your project, those policies persist between deployments. However, if you add governance policies at run-time, those policies won't persist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you add governance policies to your project, those policies persist between deployments. However, if you add governance policies at runtime, those policies won't persist.
```

====

[[error-handling]]
=== Error Handling

Use these properties to handle error scenarios. Define these properties within the `spec` section of a broker configuration.

[cols="1,2,1,1,1,1"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required |Default

|`maxNumberOfLoops` |The maximum number of steps that a task can take. Useful for keeping orchestrations from running too long and consuming too many tokens. |Integer |Positive integer |No |25
|`maxConsecutiveErrors` |The maximum number of errors that the orchestrator will attempt to recover from before returning a failed status. |Integer |Positive integer |No |3
|`taskTimeoutSecs` |A timeout (in seconds) for how long each orchestration task should run. |Integer |Positive integer (seconds) |No |60
|===

==== Error Handling Considerations

* `maxNumberOfLoops` 

  ** Each step in an orchestration consumes tokens.
  ** Complex tasks may require more steps.
  ** Simple tasks should complete with fewer steps.

>   ** Default of 25 is suitable for most use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** The default of 25 maximum loops is suitable for most use cases.
```

* `maxConsecutiveErrors` 

  ** Allows the orchestrator to retry failed operations.
  ** Prevents infinite retry loops.

>   ** Default of 3 attempts provides a balance between resilience and failure detection. After reaching this limit, the orchestration returns a failed status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** Default of three attempts provides a balance between resilience and failure detection. After reaching this limit, the orchestration returns a failed status.
```

Reviewer: Maybe you want to leave it as 3, since that's probably an actual value, so maybe format with the backticks. And then same elsewhere where you are referencing an actual value.

      protocol: a2a
----

The `agents` element has these properties.

[cols="1,2,1,2,1",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description |Type |Valid Values |Required
|`label` |A label for this agent. |String |Any string value |No
|`description` |A description for this agent. |String |Any string value |No
|`tags` |Tags associated with this agent. |Array |Array of string values |No
|`card` |Agent card definition. |Object |See <<card-element,card element>> |No
|`metadata` |Agent metadata configuration. |Object |Object with `protocol` property |Yes
|`metadata.platform` |The name of the platform running this agent. For example, Bedrock, AgentForce, etc. |String |Any string value |No
|`metadata.protocol` |The name of the protocol. For example, a2a. |String |`a2a`, `other` |Yes
|`metadata.links` |Defines the list of agents that this agent connects to. |Array |Array of objects with `agent.ref` property |No
|`metadata.tools` |Defines the list of tools that this agent connects to. |Array |Array of objects with `mcp.ref` property |No
|===

[[mcp-servers-element]]
== `mcpServers` Section

> This section lists the MCP servers in your agent network. Use these servers to obtain relevant context and generate notifications. If you want to apply governance to an MCP server using the agent network file, it must be in your `agent-network.yml` file or published to Anypoint Exchange as an asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists the MCP servers in your agent network. Use these servers to obtain relevant context and generate notifications. To apply governance to an MCP server using the agent network file, it must be in your `agent-network.yml` file or published to Anypoint Exchange as an asset.
```

        path: /mcp
----

> We support both MCP `streamableHttp` and SSE transports, but we recommend `streamableHttp`.

Reviewer: Personally, I don't like this "we" stuff but I think that's fine in Salesforce style, right?

Author: Yeah, we did it in SF :grimacing:

> Just like in the `brokers` section, an allowed attribute is available to filter the available tools. The allowed attribute in the brokers section is more granular and applied only to that specific broker. In the `mcpServers` section, this attribute applies to the MCP server as a whole, filtering at the group level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just like in the `brokers` section, an allowed attribute is available to filter the available tools. The allowed attribute in the `brokers` section is more granular and applied only to that specific broker. In the `mcpServers` section, this attribute applies to the MCP server as a whole, filtering at the group level.
```

             name: weather-agent           
----

[[authentication-types]]
=== Authentication Types

> Connection authentication is always expressed in accordance with link:https://swagger.io/docs/specification/v3_0/authentication/[Open API authentication methods]. For supported authentication types, see xref:af-agent-networks.adoc[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Connection authentication is always expressed in accordance with https://swagger.io/docs/specification/v3_0/authentication/[Open API authentication methods]. For supported authentication types, see xref:af-agent-networks.adoc[].
```

  "organizationId": "85de5a54-1f33-4ea4-a1bf-8a65bc409179",
  "descriptorVersion": "1.0.0",
  "tags": [],
  "groupId": "85de5a54-1f33-4ea4-a1bf-8a65bc409179",
  "assetId": "employee-onboarding-network",
  "version": "1.0.5",
  "dependencies": [
    {
      "groupId": "85de5a54-1f33-4ea4-a1bf-8a65bc409179",
      "assetId": "hr-agent",
      "version": "1.0.21",
      "classifier": "agent-metadata",
      "packaging": "zip"
    }
  ],
  "metadata": {
    "variables": {
      "openai": {
        "clientId": {
          "description": "OpenAI LLM Client ID",
          "default": ""
        },
        "clientSecret": {
          "description": "OpenAI LLM Client Secret",
          "default": "",
          "secret": true
        },
        "url": {
          "description": "OpenAI URL",
          "default": "",
          "secret": false
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
----

These key-value pairs are important for your agent network configuration.

groupId:: ID of the Anypoint business group that owns your agent network and all the assets derived from it.
assetId:: Unique identifier for the agent network project.
dependencies:: Existing assets that this network needs to reference.

> variables:: Nested in the metadata section, defines all the variables whose values shouldn't be hardcoded in the agent network YAML file. The user must be prompted for those values when publishing the agent network. Each variable has a `description` value, a `default` value, and a `secret` value that indicates whether it's treated as sensitive or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
variables:: Nested in the metadata section, defines all the variables whose values shouldn't be hardcoded in the agent network YAML file. Enter these values when publishing the agent network. Each variable has a `description` value, a `default` value, and a `secret` value that indicates whether it's treated as sensitive or not.
```

> When the agent network is published, all the assets derived from it share the same `groupId` (business group) defined in `exchange.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the agent network is published, all the assets derived from it share the same `groupId` (business group) defined in the `exchange.json` file.
```

[[ref-element]]

> === Relationship to the ref Section in agent-network.yaml

Reviewer: Can the title for this just be Ref Element or Ref Section? This might be a generated title.

The `ref` element is used in different elements in the agent network YAML, and is important for your agent network configuration.

> The `ref` element represents another asset that exists in Exchange. The type of asset referenced depends on the context (such as agent, MCP server, LLM provider). The semantic is always that of referencing an asset that exists in Exchange, or will exist when the agent network is published (meaning, it's defined in the file). If referenced, it's in the dependencies section of `exchange.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ref` element represents another asset that exists in Exchange. The type of asset referenced depends on the context (such as agent, MCP server, LLM provider). The semantic is always that of referencing an asset that exists in Exchange, or will exist when the agent network is published (meaning, it's defined in the file). If referenced, it's in the `dependencies` section of `exchange.json`.
```

This snippet represents a link to an HR agent. The `name` attribute doesn't point to the agent's human friendly or logical name (which can change); instead, it references the `assetId` that `hr-agent` has in Exchange.

[source,yaml]
----
     links:
        - agent:
            ref:
              name: hr-agent
----

The `hr-agent` asset can either exist already, or can be defined in this same YAML. In either case, the Exchange `assetId` is the key to this reference.

> In some cases, the `ref` element needs to point to an asset that's defined in a different business group. For this, the `ref#namespace` attribute can be used to reference the asset's `groupId`.  To find the `groupId`, look in the `dependencies` section in `exchange.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the `ref` element needs to point to an asset that's defined in a different business group. For this, the `ref#namespace` attribute can be used to reference the asset's `groupId`.  To find the `groupId`, look in the `dependencies` section in the `exchange.json` file.
```
